issue/4277-doc-resource-sets (#4600)
inmanta/inmanta-core: docs/resource_sets/resource_sets.rst

**********************************

> Resource sets and partial compile

Reviewer: I would add a few more things to document:

* I would add an actual example. Maybe this example can build further on the small code snippet you already have.
    1. First, show the full model with a new Routers that belong to different resource set
    2. Then, show a partial model that updates a subset of the Routers
    3. It would also be nice if the example contains a shared resource (a resource that doesn't belong a resource set). Maybe we can use `std::AgentConfig` for that and explain that all Routers are managed by the same agent.
* Also explain that shared resource are never deleted by a partial compile and that a full compile is required to garbage-collect these shared resource.
* Also mention that we have support to perform scheduled full compiles.

**********************************

> To support constant scalability resource sets can be used. Without the use of those, each time a resource is added,

Reviewer: I would not use the term "constant scalability", because the time to compile a model will not be constant. The compile time depends on the size of resource set and the amount of resources in one set depends on the user. The main difference is that the compile time depends on the size of the resource set and not the size of the entire model.

updated or removed, the entire model is recompiled.

> By using resource sets, the resources managed by the inmanta server can be grouped in resource sets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using resource sets, the resources that are usually updated together can be grouped in resource sets.
```

> This allows to perform a certain action (e.g. dry-run, repair run) only on the resources of a specific resource sets.

Reviewer: Partial dry-runs and partial repairs runs are something we do not yet support at the moment. As such, I wouldn't mention it.

> Compiling only some resource sets and not all the resources is called a partial compile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compiling only some resource sets and not the entire model is called a partial compile.
```

Partial compiles
###########################
A partial compile compiles a model that only contains the entities/resources for the resource sets that should be
updated (and the dependencies of these resources to resources that don't belong to a resource set). It's the
responsibility of the server to compose a new version of the model using the resources in the previous version of the
model and the resources that are part of the partial compile.

Constraints and rules
************************

To ensure partial compiles work correctly some constraints and rules where put in place:

* A resource cannot be part of multiple resource sets at the same time.
* A resource doesn't have to be assigned to a resource set.
* Resources cannot migrate to a different resource set using a partial compile. This operation requires a full compile.
* When a partial compile contains a resource that belongs to a certain resource set, the partial compile should contain all the resources for that specific resource set that should be present in the new version of the model.
* A partial compile can never update/remove resources that were not assigned to a specific resource set (adding resources is allowed).

> * The new version of the model that results from a partial compile, should have a dependency graph that is closed (i.e. doesn't have any dangling dependencies). This constraint is check by the server.

Reviewer: The other constraints are also checked by the server.
```suggestion
* The new version of the model that results from a partial compile, should have a dependency graph that is closed (i.e. doesn't have any dangling dependencies).
```

* A partial compile can update multiple resource sets at the same time.

Exporting a partial model to the server
******************************************************
To export a partial model to the server, 2 options can be specified to the ``inmanta export`` command.
- A ``--partial`` option is added to indicate that the model being compiled, only contains the resources that should be
updated with respect to the previous version of the model.
- A ``--delete-resource-set <resource-set-name>`` option is added. This option can be passed multiple times and
indicates that the resource set with the given name should be removed from the model. This option can only be used in

> combination with the previous one.

Reviewer: When I render the documentation, the itemize doesn't happen.

* The new version of the model that results from a partial compile, should have a dependency graph that is closed (i.e. doesn't have any dangling dependencies).
* A partial compile can update multiple resource sets at the same time.

Exporting a partial model to the server
******************************************************
To export a partial model to the server, 2 options can be specified to the ``inmanta export`` command.

- A ``--partial`` option is added to indicate that the model being compiled, only contains the resources that should be updated with respect to the previous version of the model.

- A ``--delete-resource-set <resource-set-name>`` option is added. This option can be passed multiple times and indicates that the resource set with the given name should be removed from the model. This option can only be used in combination with the previous one.

Limitations
*************
* With partial compiles the compiler cannot verify all constraints that would be checked when a full compile is ran. For example, not all index constraints can be verified. It's the responsibility of the model developer to make sure that these constraints are satisfied.

> * To delete shared resources (resources that do not belong to a resource set) a full compile is still needed as shared resources can not be removed by partial compiles. A solution to this is to perform scheduled full compiles to garbage-collect these shared resources.

Author: should I add a link to github in the docs?

> * To delete shared resources (resources that do not belong to a resource set) a full compile is still needed as shared resources can not be removed by partial compiles. A solution to this is to perform scheduled full compiles to garbage-collect these shared resources.

Reviewer: Why do you want to add a link to github? And what do you want to reference?

> * To delete shared resources (resources that do not belong to a resource set) a full compile is still needed as shared resources can not be removed by partial compiles. A solution to this is to perform scheduled full compiles to garbage-collect these shared resources.

Author: I was planing to do something like this:

To perform scheduled full compiles the [environment settings](https://github.com/inmanta/inmanta-core/blob/master/docs/install/3-configure-agents.rst) can be used.

> * To delete shared resources (resources that do not belong to a resource set) a full compile is still needed as shared resources can not be removed by partial compiles. A solution to this is to perform scheduled full compiles to garbage-collect these shared resources.

Reviewer: What I meant is that our sphinx extension has support to reference environment settings. The link I sent, provides an example regarding the syntax you should use to do that. The syntax looks like this: 

```
:inmanta.environment-settings:setting:`<setting-name>`
```

> * To delete shared resources (resources that do not belong to a resource set) a full compile is still needed as shared resources can not be removed by partial compiles. A solution to this is to perform scheduled full compiles to garbage-collect these shared resources.

Author: Ho I see, this is nice and makes more sense :p

* A partial compile can update multiple resource sets at the same time.

Exporting a partial model to the server
******************************************************
To export a partial model to the server, 2 options can be specified to the ``inmanta export`` command.

- A ``--partial`` option is added to indicate that the model being compiled, only contains the resources that should be updated with respect to the previous version of the model.

- A ``--delete-resource-set <resource-set-name>`` option is added. This option can be passed multiple times and indicates that the resource set with the given name should be removed from the model. This option can only be used in combination with the previous one. Note that it is also possible to implicitly delete resource sets in a partial compile by using an ``std::ResourceSet`` that doesn't contains any resources

Limitations
*************
* With partial compiles the compiler cannot verify all constraints that would be checked when a full compile is ran. For example, not all index constraints can be verified. It's the responsibility of the model developer to make sure that these constraints are satisfied.

> * By only doing partial compile it can happen that a shared resource becomes obsolete: several resources that belongs to different resources set can depend on a specific shared resource (not associated with a specific resource set).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* By only doing partial compile it can happen that a shared resource becomes obsolete: several resources that belong to a different resource set can depend on a specific shared resource (not associated with a specific resource set).
```

  When a partial compile deletes the last resource that was depending on the shared resource, the shared resource will become obsolete, but it is kept as a resource managed by the server because partial compiles cannot delete shared resources.

>   To delete shared resources a full compile is needed as shared resources can not be removed by partial compiles. A solution to this is to perform scheduled full compiles to garbage-collect these shared resources.

Reviewer: The previous sentence already mentions this.
```suggestion
  To delete shared resources a full compile is needed. A solution to this is to perform scheduled full compiles to garbage-collect these shared resources.
```
